Previously reconfigure the sport with a steady cam MAC address the disadvantage with that method is
that you have to manually configure every MAC address that you want to add to your system.
So if you had a 48 port switch and you wanted to promote two MAC addresses per port that's already 96
and MAC addresses that you need to configure.
So that's a lot of work.
On this port gigabit 00 we simply enabled port security.
But the problem with that method is when the switch reboots the port goes down and then comes up again
a new MAC address can simply be learnt.
So if we want to limit that port to specific MAC addresses and add those MAC addresses to the configuration
automatically we can use the command switchboard port security MAC address and now rather than manually
configuring the MAC address we can use the option stickie to configure a dynamic secure MAC address
a sticky.
Now to put that in plain English that essentially adds the MAC address to the running configuration
of the switch.
So when the MAC address is discovered we talked to this command.
But notice the command was automatically added to the configuration that MAC address wasn't previously.
We only taught those two commands.
But now when we added this command the MAC address was automatically added to to the configuration.
The advantage with that is that when we save the configuration
so noticed when we go to the startup config at the moment no MAC address has been added to the startup
config.
But as soon as we save the configuration and then look at the startup config that MAC address is added
so show startup config
MAC address has been added.
So the advantage of that is once again if you have a 48 port switch and you want to add a MAC address
per port you don't have to configure Forty-Eight MAC addresses statically.
If you want to allow two MAC addresses per port you don't have to configure 96 MAC addresses.
You can simply use the stickie option and allow the switch to learn the MAC addresses and then you save
your config.
Just remember you need to make sure that the MAC addresses learnt initially are the correct MAC addresses.
The idea is that you initially control which devices access the network and hence which MAC addresses
are lent.
So the advantage of stickie once again is that you don't have to manually type all the MAC addresses
in.